# SLBQP

#### Folder Structure
* `SLBQP.py`
    * This is the file containing the main algorithm SLBQP(params).
    The parameters of the algorithm are the following:
        * `K` : kernel matrix.
        * `y` : target vector.
        * `C` : box upperbound.
        * `epsilon` : problem parameter for the epsilon-tube.
        * `eps`: tolerance for the norm of the direction (default: `1e-6`).
        * `maxIter`: maximum number of iterations (default: `1000`, `-1`for running until convergence).
        * `alpha`: step size along the anti-gradient before the Goldstein projection (default: `1`).
        * `lmb0`, `d_lmb`: parameters for Goldstein's projection.
        * `prj_eps`: tolerance for the equality in the projection (default: `1e-9`).
        * `verbose` : if to print more messages.
        * `prj_type`: which projection to use: `1` for Goldstein (default), `2` for Rosen.
        * `ds`: `DataStorer` object to save the iteration information (default: `None`).

* `SLBQP_test.py`
    * This is the file used to test the algorithms. It computes the solutions with both Rosen and Goldstein projections algorithms and compares the solutions, printing the results.
    It takes as input the following parameters:
    `n` : size of the problem to solve
    `C` : upperbound of the box constraints
    `eps`: problem parameter for the epsilon-tube
    `dataset`: which dataset to sample from [ML, Airfoil, California Housing]
* `projections.py`
    * This file contains Rosen's and Goldstein's projection functions.
* `datastorer.py`
    * Class implementing a logger which saves some metrics for each iteration of the algorithm (function value, gradient norm, direction norm ...). It can also be used to store the logs on a file for leater analysis.
* `./data`
    * This folder contains the ML dataset and the Airfoil dataset. The California Housing dataset, being included is sklearn, is automatically downloaded from the internet when the respective load function is called.
* `./experiments`
    * This folder contains the notebooks we used to run the experiments, generate and analyse the data and create the plots.
        * `DataGeneration` is the notebook containing the code to run the experiments.
        * `ResultsAnalysis` is the notebook to load and analyse the data generated with `DataGeneration` and to show the plots. It uses the folder structure generated by the above notebook, so it must be run after it.
* `./myutils`
    * This folder is a package containing utility functions for data loading, data transformation and visualization

### dependencies
All the dependencies needed to run the programs are in the `requirements.txt`file.
The use of a virtual environment is suggested.

Here's an example of how to install the dependencies in a virtual environment and run the program.

````
python3 -m venv venv               # create the virtual environment
. venv/bin/activate                # activate it
pip install -r requirements.txt    # install the dependencies
python3 SLBQP_test.py              # run SLBQP_test.py
````

